# ABSTRACT: undo what the template engine does
# PODNAME: HTML::Untemplate

# VERSION

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Despite being named similarly to L<HTML::Template>, this distribution is not directly related to it.
Instead, it attempts to reverse the templating action, whatever the template agent used.

=head2 Why?

Suppose you have a CMS.
Typical CMS works roughly as this (data flows bottom-down):

            RDBMS
      scripting language
             HTML
         HTTP server
            (...)
          HTTP agent
        layout engine
            screen
             user

Consider the first 3 steps: C<RDBMS =E<gt> scripting language =E<gt> HTML>

This is "applying template".

Now, consider this: C<HTML =E<gt> scripting language =E<gt> RDBMS>

I would call that "un-applying template", or "untemplate" C<:)>

The practical application of this set of tools to assist in creation of web scrappers.

=head2 xpathify

The L<xpathify> tool flatterns the HTML tree into key/value list.
The keys are in XPath format, while the values are respective content from the HTML tree.
Theoretically, it could be possible to reassemble the HTML tree from the flat key/value list this tool generates.

=head2 untemplate

The L<untemplate> tool flatterns a set of HTML documents using the algorithm from L<xpathify>.
Then, it strips the shared key/value pairs.
The "rest" is composed of original values fed into the template engine.

=head1 SEE ALSO

=for :list
* L<HTML::Similarity>
* L<XML::DifferenceMarkup>

=cut
